welcome back again everyone illallah
Montgomery here bringing you part 6 in
this series where we're given the
warlord era in China once over this
slice of Republican era history lasted
from Yun sure Kai's death in 1916 until
the end of the northern expedition that
we haven't gotten to yet but will one
day but not in this episode we left off
in part 5 in 1922 with will pay fool
riding high in the saddle as the
undisputed power in Beijing where the
official government of the Republic of
China was located he had just won an
overwhelming victory over John saw
aliens forces in the first surely Fontan
war and while all this is happening in
the north there's a whole parallel
universe happening down in the South
that we've only touched on here and
there
our focus thus far in this series has
mostly been with respect to what was
happening up north with the bay young
government rather than the rival
government led by sun yat-sen in Canton
Guangzhou with will pay foo in charge up
in Beijing one of the first things he
tried to establish was a good government
that could lead from the top down he
assembled what became known as the
cabinet of able men the call went out
for all men of talent to come forth and
serve their country at this hour of need
you may recall from that Wellington coup
episode he was one of those patriotic
Chinese who left his eye Delic life as
an overseas diplomat to become part of
this cabinet that will pay fool was
personally putting together prior to
that will pay Fuu had reestablished the
parliament that August body hadn't had a
legitimate meeting since 1917 and they
dusted off Lee Ann Hong - and brought
him back as the new president of the
Republic the only one to serve twice in
this position which in a way makes him
the Grover Cleveland of modern China and
they both had mustaches - you'd think at
last this could be the break the Chinese
nation needed after all will pay foo
besides being called the jade marshal
was also referred to as the philosopher
warlord or general because he was so
educated cultured and had passed all the
old civil service exams in his younger
days sure there was that you know little
military dictatorship thing but aside
from that there was this brief moment
where it was thought under his
leadership and military strength to back
it up this might work out but it didn't
by November 1922 within the Jurlique
leaked itself there was an open split
between the two most powerful heads that
is it's how couldn't and we'll pay foo
votes how was the figurehead as far as
the head of the cheerleading
the wore the trousers in the family and
this led tits how going to extraordinary
lengths to make himself more than just a
figurehead this was the time you may
recall from part four when I first
introduced Sal kun this was when he was
buying his way into the presidency
paying $5,000 bribes to anyone in the
provisional assembly who gave him their
vote he got to be the sixth president to
the roc serving from October 10 1923 to
November 2nd 1924 not that he was a
paragon of virtue but will pay foo
wasn't happy about the way it's how Kuhn
had gone and done what he did there was
a lot of blowback from the public and
will pay for who had to answer to all
the national outrage about Saul taking
corruption to a whole new level with all
this discord between Hsiao kun and will
pay foo well there went the Jade
Marshalls whole big idea from the top
down the cabinet the Parliament poor the
UN Hong all these so-called able man
like Wellington ku and one Chong Wei who
give him better circumstances might have
been able to make a difference now
without the essential unity with him
that surely cleek top leadership this
whole thing
sold out quite quickly and by 1924 there
came another in a long line of showdowns
between rival warlords let's get started
with the backstory to this second surely
font in war and along the way I'll
introduce a few more warlords who joined
the fray jauntily in after he was
defeated by will pay foo in the
battlefield went back to his stronghold
in Manchuria and embarked on a very
serious military modernization plan and
spared no expense to obtain the best
military hardware that his formidable
resources could afford and now that
aviation was far enough advanced junks
all in built an air force from the
ground up and put his son John shell
yang the young marshal in charge of this
and he trained his forces to no end and
aggressively prepared for the showdown
that was surely to come either he went
out and got rid of will pay foo or it
was gonna be the other way around
junk so Lin had bigger ambitions than
being the Manchurian warlord and John so
leans Japanese supporters who were
placing all their chips on him they were
only too willing to lend a hand or
grease the wheels have called upon to
help out in this effort of getting rid
of will pay fool like last time before
these two giants junked all in and we'll
pay foo before they took the fight to
the other they both went out and started
shopping for alliances despite their
defeat in the on wait early war Duan
shear a and the on quake league they
were still around they might not have
had the power they once had in 1917 but
they still had some influence their last
stronghold was in Shandong province and
they had influence elsewhere they
decided to cozy up to chunks all in and
give their support to his thumb 10 click
junk oil in also approached the KMT down
in Guangzhou and tried to win them over
some interesting things were happening
inside the KMT at this moment
I'm gonna focus on this in a bit or
maybe next episode
by the way January 26th 1923 came the
Sun Joffe joint statement Sun yat-sen
for lack of anyone else interested in
supporting him and his KMT joined hands
with Adolf jothee from the Comintern the
USSR had been formally established on
December 30th 1922 the Soviets had big
plans for China and as an opening gambit
in the soon-to-be messy and complicated
political situation Joffe on behalf of
the Comintern swore to support sun
yat-sen in his efforts to unify the
country they had a plan later in June
1924 over at the new Whampoa Military
Academy a 37 year old junk ice shack was
made the top guy there that fine
institution was built the Soviet money
and run on a similar model as you'd find
in the Soviet Union Sun yat-sen was
nominally in charge of everything and
based in Guangzhou serving as the
Generalissimo or grand marshal of this
southern military government whose
ultimate mission again was to unify the
country so this ill-fated experiment
between the guangdong and the soviets
was giving itself a dry run this is
where Chiang kai-shek enters the story
but let's hold off before we start
talking about him and to make this
happen
the Soviet advisors down in the south of
China dragged the Communists and
nationalists into a first united front
where the two sides would join together
in the common objective of bringing down
all the Warlord's and unifying China
this was the first time these two sides
came together we all know over the next
two and a half decades how that's gonna
work out ultimately and if you recall
from that Joe and Lai eight part series
Joe was the one who ended up in
Guangzhou in September 1924 as the CCP
representative serving in the political
department of the Whampoa Military
Academy and in July 1926 when Chiang
the northern expedition it will be from
here at Whampoa where he'll lead his
army north all coming up later in this
series right now let me turn my right
blinker on and pull off to the side of
the road and introduce another of the
more colorful and memorable warlords
this was fun you see on the Christian
warlord as I mentioned at the end of the
last episode he was converted in 1913 or
1914 and became a devout Methodist it
said he saw this conversion to
Christianity is a bridge to cooperation
with the Westerners but whether or not
that's true was questionable he was a
very devout Christian till his dying day
1948 funniest shouting is the one who's
remembered in popular Chinese history as
the general who used to perform mass
baptism ceremonies with his troops using
a fire hose although no one ever caught
that on video it's one of those George
Washington chopping down the cherry tree
kind of things it might have happened
probably didn't I thought I saw a photo
once anyway fungus Jung I'm sure you'll
not be surprised to learn was another
product of un shirk eyes they young
organization joining in 1902 he came
from a military background his father
was an officer in the ching imperial
army both parents had said were opium
addicts as the tale goes fungus young
aged 11 joined li hung-chang zwei army
nothing much to say except fungus young
at the right stuff and was popular with
his fellow soldiers and when his chance
came he joined the bay young army if
you've ever seen photos of fun you shine
you'll agree he was a pretty big guy
quite massive physically and he knew how
to keep a crowd riveted with his
speaking style and the things he spoke
about he was an emotional man and would
even weep during public speeches and
addressing his troops unlike all his
other warlord friends and foes fungus
Jung didn't hold one single base as a
personal strong
so he tended to move around a lot
wherever the opportunities were and he
was a no-frills simple soldier and made
a big deal about his simplicity and the
ascetic lifestyle he professed he
travelled in freight cars or trucks and
seemed to have never accumulated a
Warlord's wealth he wasn't an educated
man in the Confucian sense but he was
self educated which is sometimes just as
good
fungus Chang was very strict and
demanded a lot from his troops he had
this thing about reconciling Christian
morals and Chinese militarism he was up
fitness fanatic and a Teddy Roosevelt
style and he insisted his officers and
troops maintain a very tough exercise
and training regimen you know being a
run-of-the-mill foot soldier and a
warlord army didn't necessarily make one
the lowest of the low but 1920s Chinese
society it wasn't something that was
looked up to either but fungus Jung's
troops they were the exception by
reputation
they didn't smoke or drink he had a very
strict prohibition against gambling and
prostitution he didn't even like foul
language to be used and if he wanted to
rise up the ranks and fun use Jung's
army he had to do it by proving yourself
to everyone
he taught Christian and Confucian values
to his troops and genuinely tried to
help them along the way he established
charitable organizations orphanages
rehab centers for opium addicts by the
way most all of these warlords got into
the opium business seeing how profitable
and lucrative it was this plague on
society made a nice big comeback during
the warlord years and when funds men
weren't engaged in battle he
occasionally had them doing civil
engineering projects like Road building
and irrigation flood control but as I
said he wasn't a warlord who was
associated with any one particular
province or area in China so a lot of
good that he tried to do
never made it to the finish line like
most of these militarists their
expertise sort of ended with military
matters and that with things that
involve civil society public
institutions and organizations during
the decade from 1911 to 1921 fungus Jung
saw a ton of action he was always
fighting somewhere his career rose and
fell along the way depending on how the
ball bounced I guess he could say Fung
you Xiong always kept his options open
and when he made a promise to a
potential ally well he often had his
fingers crossed behind his back but for
this second major conflict that was
brewing between jerd Li & Fung tin he
had initially hitched his wagon to whoop
a fool and that surely click and I
mentioned before that the Western
nations they leaned in the direction of
will pay Fuu and Jung saw a lien he was
the favorite of the Japanese well a
fungus Jung had become the darling of
the Soviets and just like with will pay
foo fungus Jung also made the cover of
Time magazine
four years after Wolfe in July 1928 so
you know he's gonna be around for a
while fungus Jung and will pay Phu Tho
initially on the same side still had
their differences but after wool pulled
rank on Fung and had him demoted
following some incident fungus Jung
wasn't happy about that and made it a
point to get even and we'll pay foo and
other headaches as well his surely ally
and titular head of the organization's
how could was carrying out measures that
prevented will pay fool from entering
Beijing to start puttin the house in
order and getting the government set up
how he wanted to so these two were at
loggerheads when the second surely funk
in war broke out in mid-september 1924
fungus on was still on the chilly side
or so we'll pay fool thought not only
did he have a bone to pick with will pay
fool fungus Chang also wasn't so happy
what's how could and all the promises
made to him
money and support that wasn't
forthcoming there had been a number of
wars by this time surely onwe the first
surely from TN war plus other
significant battles in central China and
in the south and southwest but this
second journey from ten war this was the
biggest one to date we may call those
weapons they had kids stuff compared to
what's around today
but these warlord armies were equipped
with what was the state-of-the-art in
nineteen twenty four twenty five it was
terrible to behold in action so here's
how it all played out riding on the
outrage of tau Coons purchase of the
presidential office in 1923 1924 the on
Phu Club Duan she raised political
organization and they were down but not
out and still had a degree of power and
influence in Shandong and parts of the
lower eunsuh region they along with Sun
yat-sen's KMT had begun having friendly
discussions with Chung toh lien up in
Manchuria as soon as will pay Fuu got
wind of this he started stressing out
and for good reason too he had his chief
enemy Jung told in close by in China's
northeast with the KMT and on quake
leaked joining together and casting
their lot in with Jung soul in will pay
fool knew he'd be looking at a potential
to front war now this is where Lou young
Chang and Shi Shan enter the story two
more names for you they're important to
the story but generally not remembered
as headliners from this era no need to
do any deeper shallow dives except to
say Lou young Chang was military
governor of church young and was an
unlikely man still oiled at one shear a
will pay Fuu wanted to get rid of them
she share UN was the military governor
next door in Jiangsu and also was a
cheerleader
he was will pay Fu's horse in this race
whichever warlord controlled Shanghai
got a piece of that action not to
mention the arsenal of weapons stashed
there to protect for
in Chinese commercial interests here was
the rub Shanghai on paper back then was
considered to be under the jurisdiction
of Chang su province the Jiangsu
governor Chi share urine was supposed to
be the tap voice in Shanghai but Lou
young Chang next door governor and judge
young he had set himself up as the
decider in Shanghai who paifu backed Chi
Sharon in this fight with the judge
young governor and aunt wake leak
supporter Lou young Chang in this
inevitable showdown Chi Sharon was
backed by will pay foo and Lou young
Chang had John Collins funky n backing
though rivals these two warlords Lou
young Shang and sheesh Aegon they went
to some trouble to keep the peace
between their two respective provinces
but on September 3rd 1924 the cracked
facade of their cooperation finally
broke away the prize at stake was the
political and economic control over
China's most important commercial city
and biggest cash cow not to mention the
vast arsenal of weapons stored there
sheesh a UN being a surely warlord had
the support of the Cheerilee clique and
with this kind of firepower he was able
to pose a challenge to Lou young Chan
and soon chuan Fong down in Fujian was
called up to assist fellow Cheerilee
comrade shishi ouin with swoons army
attacking from the south and after a lot
of blood was spilled on both sides
teacher Lee backed Chi Shan was able to
overcome the judge young forces of the
on way and Fontaine backed Lou young
Chang
this was all happening in early
September 1924 by mid October 1924 Lou
young Shang waved the white flag
like other militarists before him and he
escaped to Japan to wait things out and
get back into the game at the right time
so that surely man Chi Sharon prevailed
with a little help from his friends and
the main mission was accomplished
muscling Lou Young Chang out of Jiujiang
and Shanghai and for his troubles the
governorship of Jiujiang was handed to
soon chuan Fung where he held sway till
the end of 1926 following this victory
by Chi a joint expedition with the anway
Fung 10 and Phoenicians military assets
was sent down to judge young to deal
with that situation and leading that
fight for the team was gentle Cheung the
dog made general this victory in the
Jiangsu chicheng war did a lot to raise
Swint Ron Fung up is another major
warlord on a national scale thanks to
his victories and a little good fortune
here and there soon found himself the
warlord of Fujian jiangshi and with this
defeat of Lou young Chang's forces judge
young as well and if you look at a map
of China
those three contiguous provinces covered
a lot of territory and while all this
was going on in Jiangsu and judge young
provinces junks or Lin had been having
top-secret discussions with all his
closest generals about how best to take
down will pay foo and the entire
Jurlique Lake this Jiangsu Chad young
war was a bloody one inside the
International Settlement in Shanghai
they had to go all out to try and keep
the fighting at bay as well as the
wounded soldiers who needed hospitals
and medical care residents of Shanghai
all knew this fighting was going on and
they tried not to get caught up in it it
was okay to read about the fighting and
the violence but Shanghai residents
didn't want to see it up close or from a
distance so now there was a new power
that the enemies of the Jurlique lake
had to contend with this was Swint ron
found the Nanking warlord as he became
known soon Tuan Fong
he was another Shandong ger and like
almost everyone else of his ilk came up
through the bay young army organization
he got his start fighting for one China
UN
remember this whole Bay warlord from
part three one chine un was one of the
surely warlords which by extension made
swoon chuan Fung at surely man to from
way back long story short he had done
well and swoons first big break came
when he was appointed the military
governor of Fujian Shi Shan the jang-soo
warlord he didn't get to enjoy his big
win and Shanghai too long as I said
Chung toh lien sent his secret weapon
the dog meat general down to Cho Chang
and he got rid of Qi forcing him to also
take a Tokyo vacation leaving his
military assets to swing chuan Fong
jong-hong Chang the dog meat general
we're gonna save him for next episode he
had quite a life and besides all the
claims to fame that he's remembered for
in popular Chinese history he was also a
very hard to defeat opponent on the
battlefield and he was on the fun 10
team and we'll look at him closer next
episode so john song-chun briefly till
can held chang soo and shanghai starting
in January 1925 and like I said she's
shagging he tried to put up a fight but
the help he was counting on from Swint
Wan Fung never came so he didn't get to
enjoy being the top guy in Shanghai for
too terribly long Johnson Chang kept a
wary eye and Sun Quan Phong through 1925
and Sun finally ejected Chang Chong
Chong in the fall of 1925 and swin chuan
Fong will be the greatest power in that
jang-soo
judge young Shanghai region until the
northern expedition in 1927 for now the
voice that mattered in Jang su Fujian
onwe and Jung she belonged to Swint Ron
Fung he set up his headquarters in
Nanjing and that's why his nickname in
the press became the Nanjing or Nanking
warlord and as I said just as this young
Sujit young war was starting to happen
zhang chao lin was already starting to
prime the
pump for his conquest it had been two
years since the thrashing he got at the
hands of will pay fool but he had laid
low all this time and like you've seen
before in 100 movies and novels he got
up off his knees and rebuilt and trained
and had invested in logistics new
military technologies including military
aircraft now it was time for junk oil in
to take what should have been his in
1922 these past similar showdowns had
always taken place on the farthest
southern fringes of beijing and tianjin
and all the way east to shanghai guan
where the great wall meets the yellow
sea tin shad de guan as it says on the
side the first barrier under heaven
whoever controlled shanghai quan
controlled the railway that connected
junks orleans power base in Shenyang
with Beijing this time around the second
surely Fontaine conflict was a little
more spread out but still mostly limited
to northern obey as surely province
would one day be called if you want to
do a deep dive into the order of battle
from start to finish you will be met
with a tidal wave of names of commanders
deputy commanders and battles splashed
all over northern Bay almost half a
million combined troops on both sides
all the weapons of war that had caused
all that horrible destruction on the
battlefields of Europe during World War
one
now these warlords were turning these
mechanical devices on each other I think
what's most important to know about the
second surely Funke in war was that as I
said Jean tahleen had gone full boat for
two years to train for this day will pay
Fu's Julie military organization they
were the overconfident incumbent the two
things that cause will pay food to lose
this war where perhaps his under
estimating chunks Holland's firepower
and military effectiveness and for sure
the defection of fungus young from the
Cheerilee side to the front inside after
hostilities had broken out that's a
whole docudrama in and of itself how
Jung jollying leading up to this moment
in 1924 used his lieutenants to secretly
approach fungus young and make some
attractive offers he knew Fung was
having issues with his boss will pay foo
which made him ripe for acquisition and
when some extra convincing was needed on
wake leek intermediaries approached Fung
and sweeten the deal further with a 2
million yen cherry on top of everything
else that had been promised and when
fungus Jung shook hands on that deal
that spelled the end of will pay foo and
the Cheerilee clique as a major player
in China mid-september 1924 Jung - liens
armies came face to face with those of
will pay fool the armies collided right
where Liao Ning meets obey surely
province near Shanghai Quan Shin Hong
dal and in Chung de and then came the
big moments after fierce fighting on
both sides that produce no clear winner
so far
fungus Jung on October 22nd 1924
launched his Beijing coup his great
betrayal - we'll pay foo in the whole
Jurlique leaked here's where he pulls
the rug out from under wool thugs former
boss it's how Kuhn who famously bribed
his way to the presidency he was put
under house arrest where he remained for
two years and phung's men then went on
and took over all the levers of power in
Beijing yes it happens in any coup
d'etat will pay fool did not see this
coming
to say that fungus Jung's defection
messed up his plans and it was a bit of
an understatement
despite walking into this war not fully
prepared he had held his own since the
outbreak of the war but now he was
getting attacked on all sides and headed
drastically changes military strategy
mid
battle right when will pay fool was
desperately trying to turn the tide of
the war that's when he learned fungus
young had defected and was now fighting
against him although the Japanese
military didn't directly participate in
this war they put up that generous cash
bribe that pushed fungus young over to
the front end side junk oil in was the
horse Japan had placed their bets on in
this race and will pay foo in the hole
surely military organization they were
intensely anti-japanese so for Japan
this second surely Fontan war was a big
chance to achieve a nice political
victory in China with will pay foo in
crisis that's when everyone lined up
against him and came in for the kill in
the end we'll pay foo and his remaining
few thousand troops had to carry out a
full-scale retreat to central China
where he could rest easy under the care
of his surely ally Swint Wan Fong to the
victors John saline and fungus Chang
they were now the kings of the north
fungus Chang had formed his own clique
with this victory he had hit the big
time on the China national stage in
addition to the Christian warlord yeah
he was now known as the betrayer general
but look at everything he had now he
called this new cleek the Guam in June
that translates to the National People's
Army and I know you're gonna find this
hard to believe but before long john
toyline and his partner in this second
surely Fontan war fungus young they - in
less than a year turn on each other and
that's all for part 7 coming up in a
mere 2 weeks or less chp patreon
subscribers they sometimes get the
episodes a few days early and a whole
lot more go to patreon.com if you're
interested to support this humble
program if you don't like signing up for
patreon go to paypal.com
throw a few coins into my begging bowl
ain't too proud to beg sweet darlin info
on how to do this is that the show notes
at tea cup dot media okay enough already
I can't say our story is almost over but
we'll get to that northern expedition
maybe by part eight or nine this is
Laszlo Montgomery once again signing off
from the city of Los Angeles here in the
Golden State's hoping you'll all keep an
open mind to coming back again next time
for another exciting episode of a China
history podcast